how to lower your website's bounce rate
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100
marketing podcast business growth show
if you haven't yet check out my weekly
email where i'm sharing actual website
and marketing tips useful podcasts free
goodies and resources each and every
week so you can kickstart your monday
with a bang give it a try over at
businessgrowth.email so first of all
what the heck is a balance well a bounce
is basically where someone goes onto
just one page of your website and exits
they don't go any further they don't
explore any other pages apart from that
one they just see something don't like
it and they head to it somewhere else
maybe a competitive site or something
else and the reason that bounce rates
having a low bounce rate is so important
is because it can really harm your
conversion rate if your bounce rate is
very high
so let me explain so most of us with our
websites if we're b2b then we probably
want people to book a demo maybe book a
call maybe fill out some kind of inquiry
form or download something so ultimately
that is the conversion point that's the
end goal we want if the bounce rate is
high that means they're just visiting
one page exiting without exploring our
content further and ultimately taking
that desired conversion we want them to
take to start a conversation and get a
sale or if you're direct to consumer
maybe your conversion point is actually
getting them to purchase so they need to
explore more content or products and
make that end purchase so according to
sem rush a great conversion rate is
anywhere between 26 to 40
that's going to be optimal so if you've
got something higher then you may want
to review some of the points we're going
to share in today's episode how can you
check your bounce rate well to check
your bounce rate you can install an
analytics tool like google analytics and
if you dive in and install that on your
website it will allow you to check your
general website
bounce rate or if you want to check
specific pages you can do that too i.e
home page service pages maybe a contact
page etc so it can give you detailed
stats over a specific set number of days
on your site as a whole or specific
pages all right let's jump in and share
nine ways to lower your bounce rate and
improve your website conversions so
number one is your page speed as i often
talk about on the podcast page speed is
the silent killer of websites and
website conversions because you might
never know what you're missing visitors
if they head to a website that loads
slowly they're just going to get
frustrated annoyed
bounce straight off your site and head
to a competitor that gives them a more
enjoyable quicker faster better
experience
so if you want to check your website
page speed you can head to a tool like
pagespeed insight it's going to give you
useful stats so you can check out the
page speed on your mobile and desktop
version it'll give you actual tips what
you can actually change to increase your
speed often issues for low website speed
are perhaps your platform's out of date
maybe wordpress needs updating if you
run wordpress or similar platform maybe
you're running lots of heavy plugins or
maybe your plugins are out of date maybe
you've got lots of heavy website scripts
maybe you've got lots of high resolution
large scale images or videos that need
to be shrunk down optimized or maybe
click to play images to load up the
videos these kind of things are often
causes for slow speeds but yeah use a
tool like page speed insights
understand where you're at now and you
want to aim for two seconds or less
ideally a one second page speed it's
gonna help your google ranking it's
gonna give people a better experience
and ultimately help improve that bounce
rate
tip number two is designing for both
mobile and desktop so the old practice
used to be for websites years ago that
you'd build what's called a responsive
design basically that meant that the
website adapted to the device it was
opened on so that might be a mobile
phone it might be a tablet it might be a
pc back in the day it was okay years ago
the website never looked amazing it
would kind of squash squeeze to the
device it was opened on it would never
look amazing or perfect nowadays the
recommended practice is designed
separately for your mobile view so
design out the screens before you code
your site for mobile and also design out
the screens for desktop and in many
cases the search results for many sites
on google are kind of 60
weighted towards mobile now this will
vary on industry to industry depending
on where most of your prospects actually
open their site from i.e if they're in
office from home etc but i recommend
definitely doing a separate mobile
design and desktop design if you're
serious about getting results from your
website
now
there's actually a little hack if you
press f12
on google chrome you can view your site
you can toggle between mobile views
tablet views and desktop views and then
you can exit back to the desktop view so
you can actually see what your site
looks like on mobiles different types of
tablets different types of pc just by
pressing the f12 on your google chrome
gives you a good idea or there is a tool
called browser stack which is a lot more
advanced and really helpful to test
different types of views the reason it's
so important is because if people have
to mess around on their mobile zooming
in squeezing out
going all around just to see your
content and they can't really get the
information they need fast quickly and
it's not enjoyable to try and navigate
and get to the piece of information or
to contact you they're going to bounce
off and go to a competitor so you need
to make sure you're giving them the best
possible experience and also having a
mobile friendly design is now a google
ranking factor so it does affect seo so
it's super critical to get this right
number three is having clear
relevant headlines so if we're talking
about the home page ultimately as soon
as someone lands on your home page
before they scroll down they want to
know exactly what you do how you help
and then probably how to learn more or
get in touch with you so your homepage
headline for example really needs to hit
the mark and you can either take it one
of three ways you can talk about
kind of exactly what you do just clearly
stating what you do secondly you can
talk about how you help or how you
improve people's business or lives or
thirdly perhaps you can go for the main
problem that you fix for businesses
so focus on those things so as soon as
someone hits your website home page they
know exactly what you do and how you
help
and if you're on other pages for example
maybe it's your pricing page you might
want to say look this is our pricing
rates here you'll find out about how
much our things cost and if we're a good
fit to do business with you or not so
make your headlines clear
show what you can do
and don't confuse
at number four we've got simple menu
navigation so it should go without
saying really your menu now should be
super clear
show all the main pages that people can
find on both your desktop view and your
mobile view so i would recommend having
what's called a stick sticky menu nav so
that means once people scroll up or
scroll down from your site they can
easily access the menu nav they don't
need to scroll back up mess around
for both the desktop view and when you
flick it to mobile that your mobile menu
is nice and easy to see people can see
those main things and i also recommend
having your main call to action fixed in
both your desktop view and your mobile
view so in our case web choice we've got
get a free quote and a standout orange
button on the desktop and if we flick it
to mobile you've got the option to click
to call
click to inquire
or flip back to the homepage or expand
the menu so people have got those main
options they don't have to stress they
don't have to mess around they can
easily flick to the page they want
contact us give us a call in just a
couple simple clicks with no stress
at number five we've got have your main
call to actions your main ctas above the
fold what does above the fold mean it
means before someone scrolls for the top
part of your homepage before scrolling
down so for example on the
webchoiceuk.com site we've got our
logo we've got our menu nav under that
we've got our main headline then we've
got those call to actions where people
can click to view our work or portfolio
or they can get a free quote and click
through to our contact page likewise on
the reviews page
we've got the headline then we've got
the option if people want to get a free
quote or they can scroll down to view
some of our customer video reviews yours
might be something like on your results
page maybe a call to action to view case
studies and likewise a call to action to
speak to a specialist request a demo or
book a three 30 minutes consultation so
you'll notice a lot of these points are
just making people's lives nice and
super straightforward they don't have to
think they can just take those simple
actions do what they want to do view
your work get in touch learn more
minimal stress and ultimately maximum
conversion
at number six we've got handle
frequently asked questions and common
objections in your copy
so essentially when someone goes onto a
page they might have found it through
google search through seo they might
have been directed for a paid paid
advertisement through social media or
elsewhere
so typically when someone lands on the
page they want to understand that it's
going to give them the answers that they
need quickly it shows that your trusted
resource is gonna handle any objections
they might have and then make it easy
for them to take the next step with you
ideally you want this page to avoid any
jargon so any technical lingo unless
it's something your customers use all
the time it needs to be nice and clear
on the value prop you provide solving
those problems answering those questions
and like we say getting it easy as
possible people to take that desired
next step so for example on our b2b seo
page on our site we've got some copy
about kind of how we do b2b seo how it
works what the processes are for keyword
research on-site work off-site work
we've got a video that actually answers
how long it takes to get page one
rankings which is quite in-depth
we've got common questions at the bottom
under the reviews we've got answering
things like what is seo how does it work
how does b2b seo work can you do your
own do you need a specialist we're
handling all these common questions we
get and if you're not sure about
questions to leverage on this page copy
then listen to sales calls so what are
the common questions you get from
prospects on a day to day what are the
common objections you get on a
day-to-day make notes are the ones that
are said the most and then start
handling them in those copy the good
thing about this is it's going to help
your seo because it's actually there's
demand there people are actually asking
this all the time so they're probably
searching for it so it's going to rank
better on google it's going to give more
impact it's going to put people's minds
at rest and make them more likely to
stay on your page consume more content
and get in touch with you
at number seven we've got use social
proof so social proof is
video reviews from clients it could be
testimonials it could be case studies
statistics it could be results examples
of how you've helped people and
basically showing that your content your
copy on your website isn't all hot air
you're backing up your claims you're
showing through real life examples that
you can actually do what you say you can
do so if we take a quick look at our web
choice seo pricing page we've got all
our packages we've got details about how
we do the activity then we've got some
social proof so we've got literally
client testimonial videos
then we've got a summary of kind of how
the processes work so then we've got a
video of me walking through the process
and we've got some more reviews
explaining we've got 200 plus client
reviews and people can scroll through
those that's a scrolling banner we've
also got some social proof for the
review sites that we use and then
finally we've got a branded bar that
basically says these are the logos the
clients that are approved that are well
known that we've helped so mixture of
video reviews written testimonials
rating websites and also logos of
clients we've helped really to bolster
these claims and basically show that we
can do what we claim we can do so really
think about ways that you can leverage
testimonials accreditations video
reviews walkthroughs so you can really
give people confidence build up that
reputation and show that you can
actually do
what you say you can number eight is
talk to your customers so talking to
your best existing clients or if you're
brand new business then talking to
target prospects or target customers and
after you've reviewed your analytics and
you understand the pages that are having
a high bounce rate right now ask them to
take a good look at them get a sample
size of maybe five to ten customers
ask them to review these pages that have
got a high bounce rate and ask for them
what they feel could be improved get
their feedback what do they like about
it what do they dislike what do they
feel is missing what do they feel needs
improving around your copy your content
your text around the layout around the
design itself
and then once you've got this feedback
ideally you want to record it on a video
session or worst case on email note down
the patterns note down the things that
are said most frequently and then you
can start testing those one by one
making those tweaks making those changes
and see how they affect your results how
they affect the bounce rate and the
conversion rate at number nine we've got
a b testing or split testing and this is
great if you're running advertising if
you're running things like google ads
social ads etc what you can do is you
can set up different pages so you know
the pages that have got a high bounce
rate you can assign
different ads to go to different pages
so perhaps you've got one home page with
one headline so maybe your headline on
home page a is all about a value prop
and maybe home page b is a headline with
the problem the key problem the key
frustration that customers come to you
with so you're testing how well each
headline works
if one has a better bounce rate than the
other and what i recommend when you're
doing things like a b testing is not to
change everything to make small changes
at a time so you can see what's actually
impacting it so you might change the
headline on each the next go you might
change social proof so different types
of testimonials or case studies or
reviews on the second time then you
might test different colors of call to
actions or different ways you were the
call to action so it might be contact us
on one landing page and the other
landing page might be speak to a
specialist today or book your free
30-minute consultation so you're testing
a generic call to action against a
descriptive call to action so my point
is don't make tons of changes at once
make small changes so you can see what
has the best impact what reduces that
bounce rate what gives you a better
conversion rate and then when you run
those kind of experiments you know what
you need to keep what you need to get
rid of and again you can leverage also
the customer feedback and again put
those experiments put those feedbacks
into play see what actually drives the
results stick with what does and get rid
of what doesn't there you have it those
are my top tips on how to lower your
website's bounce rate i hope this
episode has been useful as always if
you're tuning in on the audio podcast a
quick rating or review really helps us
on the show so thanks in advance or if
you're on the youtube channel click
subscribe i'd be very very appreciative
and with that said i should catch you on
the next episode cheers